SCENE: Crystal Cove State Beach. Late at night, Dylan finishes tying a volleyball net up, Brenda’s leaning against a pole, bored.
----
Brenda: That’s the last net, can we go home now Dylan?

Dylan: Come on, Brenda. I promised the Trickell's Trickquid people we’d do a good job setting up for the tournament.

Brenda: Ugh, I’m bored and sweaty, I hate manual labor. I can’t wait for a time when robots do everything for us.

Dylan: Here, I brought some water…

Brenda: Ew! I don’t want any of that fatty fat water. I want Trickell’s Trickquid!

Dylan: Trickell’s Trickquid is water.

Brenda: Ugh, no. It’s 100% diet moisture. You want me to look good in my bathing suit, don’t you?

Dylan: Man, you are in a crabby mood…

Brenda: Please, you wanna see crabby? I’ll show you a crabby mood-

(She’s cut off by a giant man crab jumping out of the sand. She’s screaming, and grabbed by the crab as it sinks back into the sand. She’s left above the sand with the claw holding her upside down.)

Dylan: Please, Brend, where’d you get that- Giant Fake Crab Parts Emporium?

(Brenda is dragged across the beach.)

Brenda: It- It’s real!! Help me!!

Dylan: Haha, nice try, what’d you do? Dig a big hole under the sand?

Brenda: Dylan!!!

(With that she’s gone, dragged under the sand while Dylan thinks it was all an act.)

Dylan: Bravo. I’ll bite. You got an air tank under there? …. Brenda? C’mon, stop joking… Brend?

(The man crab appears out of the sand again, scaring Dylan while screeching.)

SCENE: Crystal Cove State Beach. Daytime at the beach during the Crystal Cove girls volleyball tournament.
----
Angel: This is K-Ghoul's Angel Dynamite, live from the Crystal Cove girls volleyball tournament. Sponsored by Trickell’s Trickquid. What Mother Nature drinks when she doesn’t wanna look fat.

Shaggy: Oh boy, like what a crowd! I hope they saved us some food, Scoob!

Scooby: Yeah!

Man in Costume: Trickell’s Trickquid here. The nonfat liquid diet, no-calorie, gluten-free moisturizer supplement, now in wet and extra wet.

Shaggy: Well, we want some real food, right Scooby-Doo?

Scooby: U-huh! Like that!

(Shot of the Clam Cabin.)

Velma: Ugh, not that place! That guy's a freak!

Shaggy: No, like he’s totally cool! Just don’t mention his nose.

Velma: Hey there cappie. What happened to the old sniffer.

Skipper Shelton: What happened? I’ll tell ye’, boyo! It ‘twas a clam that took it. Fierce and mighty was he and reduced me to wearing facial underwear he did, but I’ll find him. And I won’t stop shuckling till I do! Understand?

Velma: Yes sir, captain admiral sir.

Skipper Shelton: It’s Skipper!! Skipper Shelton! Clam hunter and waffle griddler. So, what’ll it be, skinny shanks?

Shaggy: Oh, I’ll take an extra large, please!

Velma: E-hem. Didn’t we agree that you would cut out the junk food?

Shaggy: I should, like, totally eat something healthier.

Scooby: But- but- but- huh?

Skipper Shelton: What about you, wolfie. Is it a cone stuffed with the fruits of the sea? Or are ye afraid?

Scooby: Aye aye, Skipper! No fear! Two cones here!

Fred: Mm, those look good. A big salty clam would sure go good with this heat, you want one, Daph?

Daphne: No! Fred you know what happens when I get near sea food. You remember my sister's wedding.

(Flashback to one of Daphne’s sister's weddings, she turns and looks bloated. Big time.)

Daphne: I was so swollen I couldn’t even fit in the bridal airlock!

Fred: Hey, don’t worry, Daph. Those clams aren’t close enough to cause you any trouble. Hey, Skipper! Didn’t your cabin used to be over where the volleyball courts are?

Skipper Shelton: Ay! Everytime the town has an event on the beach they move me business! Blast the City Council!! Ugh, I need a clamming break. Watch me cabin.

(Shaggy looks at the ice cream longingly, but gets a hard glare back from Velma as Fred takes the cones.)

Shaggy: Like, come on Velma can’t I even look?

Scooby: Wait for me!

(Scooby left to catcth them while a seagull lands in the sand until the Man-Crab grabs and drags it down)

SCENE: Crystal Cove State Beach. There’s a volleyball game being played as people cheer on and watch. The gang are sitting in the bleachers. Velma tries to slide closer to Shaggy but is denied with Scooby appearing between them.
----
Scooby: Great game, huh?

Velma: Yeah, great.

Daphne: Y’know we’re still close to the water… all kinds of fish in there…

Fred: Yup, they’re so beautiful...

Daphne: The girls?

Fred: No! The nets.

Daphne: The nets?

Fred: I wonder what their tensile strength is... they’re nylon! Just absolutely perfect for traps!

Daphne: Feel like going for a walk?

Velma: No one here is gonna miss us…

(The ground starts to shake.)

Shaggy: Scooby Doo, is that your stomach?

Scooby: Nu-uh. Not my stomach…

(The Man-Crab’s claw appears out of the sand, grabbed the volleyball in it’s pincers and popped it before screaming. The girls on the court went running off in fear.)

Daphne: Is that a crab? Or is it a man?

Shaggy: Like, it’s a- a mab.. A cran-

Scooby: It’s a man crab!!

(The Man-Crab came up the bleaches, chasing after the gang and three kids. It hit the floor of the bleachers, launching everyone into the air. Four of the girls from the volleyball court held out a net, catching the gang and kids in a cheerleading like stance. As the Man-Crab moved to attack them again, Angel Dynamite threw a microphone at him to catch it’s attention, followed by throwing music discs at it like throwing stars. But all three were deflected, hitting the wood post beside Angel before it jumped and tried to grab her. The Man-Crab jumped again through the bleachers underground, tunneling around before closing in on a girl Jesgika Brown and taking her.)

Fred: We can’t let that thing get away!

Shaggy: Sure we can, Fred! All we have to do is stand right here!

Scooby: Yeah, stand right here!

(They’re pulled along by Velma. The Man-Crab stands at the top of a tent before cutting a hole into it and disappearing inside.)

Fred: What? They’re gone!

SCENE: Crystal Cove State Beach Locker Tent. There’s news reporters interviewing people while Sheriff Bronson Stone listens to Shaggy badly explain what happened.
----
Shaggy: And then, like dude it had huge claws!!

Scooby: And weird eyes!! Like this!!

Daphne: Sheriff Stone, you have to close the beach!

Peter Trickell: The beach stays open. Hi, Peter Trickell. President of Trickell’s Trickquid.

Velma: You can’t just ignore the giant crustacean attacking your tournament!

Peter Trickell: Ha, clearly you never went to business school. Young lady, no ones sure what they saw. Could’ve been a man crab, could’ve been a man lobster! Could’ve also been a really ugly, out of shape person who should be drinking Trickell’s Trickquid!

Sheriff Stone: Well it’s pretty clear to me something did happen here and uh.. There’s nothing I can do about it.

Fred: But sheriff!

Sheriff Stone: Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. We’re not set up for this. Our motto is ‘to serve and protect.’ Not ‘to serve and protect from man crabs.’

Fred: Well… you know what this means, don’t you?

Shaggy: We respect authority, go back home and forget this ever happened.

Fred: It means we investigate.

Shaggy: I was afraid you’d say that..

Velma: I think our investigation is off to a good start!

Daphne: A locker spilling sand?

Velma: And look whose it is.

Daphne: Skipper Shelton?

Velma: And who wasn’t around when the man crab took that girl?

Fred: He’s so angry at the city for moving his cabin, he has a perfect motive for ruining the tournament!

Daphne: What we need is a trap for the man crab! Right Fred?

Fred: Actually, what I was thinking was… we need a trap for the man crab!

Daphne: Great plan.

Fred: Thanks! Daphne, you used to play a little volleyball back in the day, didn’t you?

Daphne: Well… I wouldn’t exactly say play.

(Flashback to Daphne in a gym getting hit in the gut with a volleyball, barely dodging a volleyball and getting hit in the face.)

Fred: You’ll be perfect bait! I mean, what man crab wouldn’t want to drag you beneath the sand.

Daphne: Aw, Freddie, that’s so sweet! Sort of..

SCENE: Crystal Cove State Beach. Scooby and Shaggy are hiding behind rocks, watching the Clam Cabin.
----
Shaggy: Y’know, Scoob before all this started I really loved crab. Crab brulee.

Scooby: Crabaroni and cheese.

Shaggy: Crabcicles. I can’t talk about this. I promised Velma… I mean- Y’know, I promised myself that I would eat more healthy.

Fred: Look out times over guys! Come see what I made!

(Fred takes them to a different part of the beach.)

Fred: Here’s the plan, Daphne will run across the sand to here, where the man crab will step on this plunger. And when he does, a big lid will spring up under him and dump him into that pot!

Shaggy: Like, where is Daphne anyways, the match is about to start and Scoob and I have to get back to keeping an eye on the Clam cones. (Velma shoots him a look.) I mean, Skipper!

Velma: I’ll go get her.

(Velma walks over to the parking lot and to the Mystery Machine. Daphne’s getting changed in the back of the Mystery Machine.)

Velma: Wow, who are you trying to impress?

Daphne: What, this old thing? I’ve had it forever. I just want to do a good job! Would you rub oil on my back? Fred likes shiny things and I’m tired of him looking at nets.

Velma: Hey, Daphne, lemme ask you something. If you liked a boy-

Daphne: Who told you? Was it one of my sisters? Dawn! Hah, she thinks she’s so perfect. Well, what no one knows is she has a sixth toe on her-

Velma: Uh, what are you talking about?

Daphne: Clearly not what you were talking about.

Velma: Well, I mean I’m just wondering. Do boys like it when you tell them what to do?

Daphne: Of course they do, without my mom around I don’t even think my dad could feed himself. I remember she went away once, and when she came back we found my dad half naked and sucking on an unopened can of soup! Why?

Velma: Well… I’m just working on a science paper that’s all- (She’s picked up by the man crab.)

Daphne: Did you say something? Make sure you get me behind the shoulder blades, okay? When I burn there it makes me look like a hunchback- Hey! That’s a little much don’t you-

(She screams, seeing the Man-Crab)

Daphne: Help!!

SCENE: Clam Cabin, Crystal Cove State Beach. Scooby and Shaggy are hiding behind rocks, watching the Clam Cabin.
----
Shaggy: No Skipper Shelton, but man do those clams smell good!

Scooby: Go for it, I won’t tell Velma!

Shaggy: Oh, well I guess one delicious, chewy, briny doughy treat can’t hurt that much.

(He accidentally sets off the trap, getting stuck in the giant pot while Daphne is chased by the man crab.)

Daphne: The trap- where’s the trap?

Shaggy, from inside the pot: Like, help!

(She’s grabbed by the Man-Crab and dragged under the sand.)

Fred: Daphne!

Daphne: Fred! Fred! (disappears in the sand)

Fred: Daphne! Daphne!

(He tries to dig in the spot she was dragged into while Velma arrives.)

Velma: What happened? Something that smelt like drawn butter threw me in the van!

Fred: It was the man crab!! He took Daphne!

Velma: Fred, just calm down. We’ll get her back!

Fred: We have to Velma! I don’t know what to do! And she was so shiny!!

(Scooby got Shaggy out of the pot)

SCENE: K-Ghoul. Fred’s still digging.
----
Velma: He’s been digging like that since he lost Daphne. There’s nothing but torn carpet in the back of the Mystery Machine!

Shaggy: Like, this is all my fault! If I never tried to be healthy, Daphne would be alright! Scooby Doo, more!

(Scooby comes into the room, carrying a plate of food. He slides the food into Shaggy’s mouth.)

Fred: Someone needs to make a plan, why isn’t anyone making a plan!!

Velma: That’s usually you, Fred!

Fred: You’re right! What’s wrong with me!

(The doorbell rings and Scooby goes to answer. He finds nothing but an envelope.)

Scooby: Mr. E!

(Shaggy picks it up and gives it to Velma who opens it.)

Velma: Jinkies! Get a load of this! This article is from years ago, it says four kids disappeared exploring the Crystal Cove cavern!

Angel: Lemme see that.

Velma: Is something wrong, Angel? Do you know them?

Angel: No. Sorry, it’s nothing.

(A 8-Track falls out of the envelope.)

Shaggy: Zoinks! Like it looks like the article came with a soundtrack.

(Fred takes the 8-Track and puts it on the record player.)

Fred: It’s not working!

Angel: It’s an 8-Track, Freddie. Old school, baby.

(She put the track into the 8-Track player.)

Mr. E, over the recorded message: Hello, children. If you’ve read the article, you know this volleyball tournament isn’t the first time kids have disappeared from Crystal Cove. It’s worth researching, don’t you think?

(The tape was shot out of the player leaving everyone in wonder.)

SCENE: Night at the Crystal Cove Library. The gang are inside wandering about.
----
Velma: Welcome to where Crystal Cove keeps all its old newspaper articles. They call it the Morgue.

Shaggy: The Morgue? Like, why do they have to call it that?

Scooby: Yeah, they’re old articles. Not dead!

(They wander through the library, stopping at a computer which Velma turns on.)

Fred: There’s a book over here, Daphne used to read books… And this chair, Daphne liked to sit in chairs. That card catalog-

Velma: Not helping, Fred.

Fred: I know! What’s-a-matter with me?

Velma: Hm! Here’s a piece on the founding of Trickell's Trickquid. And here’s one on the city moving the Clam Cabin the year those kids vanished. Listen to this, Skipper threatened the whole town. He swore he’d take drastic action.

Fred: Daphne was drastically taken...

Shaggy: Hey, is this the rest of that article that Mr. E sent us?

Velma: Yeah, and check this out! It says the Crystal Cove Caverns run under the beach where the volleyball tournament is being played!

Shaggy: Like, I know that look, and it’s never good. Hoo hoo…

SCENE: Entrance to the Crystal Cove Caverns, still late at night. Fred’s leading the way in. As they walk in, a large shadow of a crab appears along the cavern walls, causing Shaggy to whimper in fear until Velma shines her light away from a small crab.

Shaggy: Like, guys, I think I found something.

(There’s a dangerous looking set of stairs up to the surface.)

Velma: What kind of crab monster would need stairs to climb up into the volleyball tournament?

Shaggy: One that’s very industrious and has a degree in engineering?

Velma: The answer is ‘no crab monster.’

Fred: I don’t care who did it. I just want Daphne back!

Daphne: (from a distance) Fred, is that you?

Fred: Now I hear her voice everywhere! And her voice sounds as sweet and as perfect as a trap snapping shut on a criminal! Did I say that out loud??

Velma: Come on!

(The gang run to find Daphne, Dylan, Brenda, Jesgika, and a seagull in a cage hung up in the cave.)

Daphne: Help!

Fred: Daphne!

Daphne: Fred! Oh, Fred! Thank goodness!

Fred: I’m so glad you’re- hey, this is a nice cage!

(Scooby picks the lock to the cage with his claw. The girls and Dylan fell out of the cage.)

Velma: Let’s get back to the surface before- AAH! (The Man-Crab appears behind her, it screeches and everyone runs off.)

(It chases after Daphne, who rolls out of the way of it’s claw. Fred helps her up and they keep running. Shaggy, Scooby and Velma are hiding behind a thin wall of stone before the Man-Crab sticks it’s leg’s through it, causing them to scream and run again. It continues to chase them, eventually splitting the gang up and chasing after Shaggy and Scooby. The rest of the gang throw rocks at it, getting it to go after them until Shaggy and Scooby run into the Man-Crab and knock it over.)

Scooby: Where is everybody?

Shaggy: Like, maybe they got eaten by a man crab!

(The Man-Crab sits up and chases after them again.)

Shaggy: Scooby-Doo, do you smell what I smell?

Scooby: Skipper Shelton’s Clam Cones!

Shaggy: Like, follow the scent of that syrupy goodness! That’s the way out of here, Scooby-Doo!

(They go running up the wooden stairs with the Man-Crab just behind them, breaking it as it scurried up the stairs. They climbed up a ladder with the Man-Crab following, the stairs behind them completely destroyed.)

Shaggy: Run, Scoob!

(The rest of the gang and the other teens are stuck watching the stairs fall.)

Velma: We’ll go out the way we came in!

(Shaggy and Scooby are still trying to push the hatch open to get away.)

Shaggy: Come on, push! Give it all your paw!

(And they’re out, coming out of the caverns to the volleyball court. The people around go running as the Man Crab crawls out of the hole. It’s hit in the face by a volleyball.)

Shaggy: I told you that would just make him angrier!

(And they’re running off again to Skipper Shelton’s Clam Cabin. They get it to chase them towards the trap, setting it off. The man crab gets pushed into the air and into a giant pot, the limbs and claw getting cut off. Shaggy and Scooby cheer at their success.)

Shaggy: Like, we got him!

Velma: Good going! But how did you find your way out?

Scooby: Clam cones!

Velma: You were saved by junk food?

Shaggy: Like, what can I say? Junk food and me have a very special relationship.

Velma: (quietly) Maybe I should ask it for advice.

Fred: Speaking of clam cones, Skipper Shelton isn’t around again. Or are you, Skipper.

(He takes the head of the crab off.)

Skipper Shelton: Ah, back from the laundromat, I am, and once more does me nose hammock smell fresh as the mornin’ tide.

Daphne: Wait, if you’re not the Man-Crab, then who--

Velma: Everyone, meet Bud Shelton!

The gang: Who?

Velma: The Trickell's Trickquid mascot!

Bud Shelton: And the inventor, not that dirtball Trickell.

Shaggy: Like, how did you know, Velma?

Velma: I knew it wasn’t a real crab because Daphne never got allergic when she was around it, plus when I saw the mole pattern on the cheek of the man next to Trickell in the newspaper, I remembered the same pattern on the mascot.

Bud Shelton: He took the credit for my creation, it was supposed to be called Bud’s Bloosh- I was still working on the name. I spent countless hours making the Man-Crab costume, and even more time building my system of trapdoors and stairs under the beach. And in case anyone came snooping in between kidnappings, I hid my costume in a locker big enough to hold it, putting a label with Skipper’s name on it over the real label.

Daphne: All that work just to get back at Mr. Trickell? Wouldn’t it have been easier and more legal to sue him?

Bud Shelton: Are you kidding? Lawyers take forever. I would have succeeded, too, if it weren’t for you meddling brats probing into my crustacean-themed revenge scheme.

Skipper Shelton: Well, almost doesn’t shuck the clam, does it wolfie? (He and Scooby laugh.)

Scooby: I have no idea what you’re talking about.

SCENE: K-Ghoul. Shaggy and Scooby are chowing down on waffles while Velma looks annoyed. Fred’s looking through the fridge as Daphne walks over to him.
----
Daphne: So, Fred, Velma said you were kind of out of sorts when I got kidnapped.

Fred: Yeah, that. Well...

Daphne: I think it’s sweet!

Fred: Really? Oh, that’s so great. I was afraid it might mess up our friendship. Don’t worry, I will never have feelings again.

Daphne: Hmm, we’ll see. So, Velma, did I miss anything else while I was gone?

Velma: Actually, yeah. (She gives Daphne the old newspaper clipping and Daphne gasps.)

Shaggy: What-- like, what is it, Daph?

Daphne: The locket I found, the picture of the boy and girl inside. It’s them!

Velma: Jinkies. I guess we’ve got a new mystery on our hands!

(Angel Dynamite listens in from the recording booth, looking away with a glare.)

[ END EPISODE : FADE OUT ]