EXT. Shelton's Fishing Boat - Day
[Skipper Shelton leads one of his fishermen in pulling up a fishing net.]

Skipper Shelton: Let's hope ol' Neptune has been kind to us this time. [the net is pulled up empty] Eh?! Salty scallops, empty again?! I hate to say it, but our only choice is... Dead Man's Point.

Fisherman: [gasps] But isn't Dead Man's Point haunted?!

Skipper Shelton: Aye, 'tis what they say, but we probably won't come back alive. But don't you forget, we're fishermen! We do stupid things all the time.

[The fisherman gulps.]

[They sail into the foggy parts of the sea.]

Skipper Shelton: This fog is thicker than sea poop! [chuckles] Always slays me, sea poop!

[The net is pulled up, filled with fish.]

Skipper Shelton: Now, that's more like it! [something swims by] Huh?

[Several large creatures swim around the ship. The fisherman shivers.]

Skipper Shelton: What in the world?!

[One of the creatures slashes the net. The fisherman trips over a cord.]

Fisherman: Whoa!

[One of the fish monsters jumps onboard. The two start running.]

Fisherman: The legend is true!

[Another one jumps onboard.]

Fisherman: Fish freaks!

[Several more appear.]

Skipper Shelton: We're doomed!

[Intro sequence plays]

INT. Crystal Cove Spook Museum - Day
[Fred and Daphne walk through the exhibits.]

Daphne: I love the haunted museum when it's empty. It reminds me so much of us. Oh, look! Flim Flam! Remember him, Freddy?

Fred: You forget. I was away that year. I spent the summer tied up at trapping camp. [chuckles] Get it? Trapping camp?

Daphne: Oh, so tragic. Twenty-five to life is a long stretch, even for a preteen con artist.

[They see an exhibit of Scrappy-Doo.]

Daphne: Wow, I haven't seen-

Fred: Look away, Daphne. We all promised each other that we would never speak of him, not ever.

INT. Bloody Stake Diner - Night
[Shaggy and Scooby sit at a booth.]

Waitress: The manager said this is the last main course platter for you guys.

Shaggy: But, like, this is your all-you-can-gorge night! You have to keep feeding us.

Scooby: Yeah, that's right!

Waitress: All-you-can-gorge only applies to amateur diners. You guys are pros.

Shaggy: Well, she's got us there, Scoob. You wanna know how we do it, Miss Vampire Waitress?

Waitress: I'll bite.

Shaggy: Like, we call it the "All Gulp, No Air" Eating Technique. By building our lung capacity, we can hold our breath and literally inhale as much food as we want. Show 'er, Scooby-Doo!

[Scooby holds his breath and eats all food on the table.]

Waitress: You too have way too much free time.

INT. Velma's House - Night
[Velma writes on her blog.]

Velma: [types] Hey out there, mystery-lovers. Velma here. No mysteries to report, just another Friday night. I'm by myself, as usual, and you know what? That's okay. What's so bad about sitting in your room alone on a Friday night?! [breaks keyboard, replaces it]

[Velma receives a new email.]

Velma: [reads message] "Dear Mystery Incorporated, have you looked into the case of the missing sardine boat that disappeared off Dead Man's Point? I think it might have something to do with the haunted oil platform in the area. Signed, Anonymous." Jinkies, a mystery! [gets on phone] Hello, Daphne? Velma. Just got a tip on our webpage. Apparently, a sardine boat disappeared. What? Well, I guess it can wait. [beat] Yes, I know you're in love with Fred. [hangs up, mocks Daphne] Velma, we're so in love! [gets on another call] Scooby? Velma. Put Shaggy on. [beat] Because you're almost impossible to understand on a phone. Shaggy? Velma. I've got a mystery for us. This boat disappeared. [beat] What do you mean, you can't come? [beat] Dessert? But you can have jellied eyeball cobbler any- hello? Hello? He hung up on me! They don't want to help me? Fine. I'll do it myself.

EXT. Sea - Night
[Velma sails alone in a yacht.]

Velma: I hope Daphne doesn't mind me borrowing her family's expensive boat. [sees fog] Great, it's gonna be impossible to find any clues in this fog.

Voice: [sings] My song fills your heart, from the depths of the sea... please listen and learn, all you can learn from me... [hums]

Velma: Oh, who's there?

Voice: A friend, Velma.

Velma: How do you know my name?

Voice: I know much about you, Mystery Incorporated. For example, I know you struggle with being smarter than everyone, think that you have a neck waddle, which is why you always have a turtleneck, or dumped by your boyfriend for a dog.

Velma: Okay, you know me.

[A mermaid emerges from the water.]

Velma: A mermaid?

Siren: I am the source of the anonymous tip that brought you out here.

Velma: Merfolk have the internet? Wait, what am I saying? This is biologically impossible.

Siren: Please, Velma, I have nowhere else to turn. I am all alone. I think you can understand that. Crystal Cove is in danger. They're coming for me. Run, Velma, or they'll get you, too!

Velma: Wait, I don't even know your name.

Siren: It's Amy. I'm a friend, Velma. You have to trust me!

[Velma returns to the boat and tries to start it. However, she is approached from behind by a fish freak. Velma starts the engine, causing the monster to fly out the back. She drives the yacht away, avoiding the fish freaks in the water.]

INT. Mystery Machine - Day
[Mystery Inc. drives on the road.]

Daphne: A haunted oil platform? A missing sardine boat? Fish freaks? That's really scary!

Scooby: Tell me about it.

Shaggy: Yeah. Like, if I wore boots, I'd be shakin' in them!

Fred: Mr. E's usually the only one we get tips from. This could be some kind of trap. You have no idea who the tipster is, Velma?

Velma: Uh... no! None. Hopefully, Skipper Shelton didn't clue us in on all the other stuff.

INT. Clam Cabin - Dusk
[Mystery Inc. speaks with Skipper Shelton at the Clam Cabin.]

Skipper Shelton: A missin' sardine boat, eh? Well, the only one that fishes these waters is run by me brother, Skipper Shelton.

Fred: There are two Skipper Sheltons?

Skipper Shelton: Besides meself, there are five Skipper Sheltons, all siblings of mine. A sardiner, a shrimper, a manta-rayer, a kelper, and a sea-dragoner. But we don't talk about him, right, wolfy? [laughs]

Scooby: [chuckles] I have no idea what you're talking about.

Skipper Shelton: As far as haunted oil platforms and fish freaks go, heh, that's a buncha crazy sea tales!

Velma: But-

Skipper Shelton: The next thing you'll be telling me is that mermaids really exist! [laughs]

[Everyone laughs]

Fred: No one'd go that far.

[Velma is visibly uncomfortable.]

EXT. Clam Cabin - Night
[Scene cuts to night. Mystery Inc. leaves and Shelton goes inside.]

Skipper Shelton: Haunted oil platforms and fish freaks? What will those crazy kids come up with next?

[Fish freaks sneak around him, but he hardly notices.]

Skipper Shelton: Huh? What in the seven seas is makin' that racket?

[He goes outside. He shines his flashlight on one of the fish freaks, which shrieks.]

INT. Velma's House
Velma: [uses computer] Come on, where are you? [hears knocking, sees Amy in window, gasps] Amy?! [opens window] How did you get here all the way from the ocean?

Amy: [enters] It wasn't easy. The last few yards, the neighbourhood cats were stalking me something fierce. [falls off windowsill, grunts]

Velma: One second, Amy. I gotta log off. [types] "See y'all later. A special friend just stopped by for a visit. LOL." Wow, you came all this way just to see... me?

Amy: I had to. Skipper Shelton has been taken by the fish freaks.

Velma: What? But we just left him!

Amy: I think they're headed for the oil platform.

Velma: Can you lead us out there?

Amy: Sure, I guess.

Velma: Great. I'll call the gang.

Angie Dinkley: [knocks, from hallway] Velma, come on! Open up, honey, I wanna meet your special friend.

Velma: Uh... what special friend?

Angie Dinkley: The one you wrote about on your blog.

Velma: Mom, you're so noisy!

Angie Dinkley: [pounds on door] Velma Dinkley, you open the door this instant!

Velma: [shudders] How am I gonna explain a mermaid in my room?

[Velma drags Amy into a bathroom, shutting her inside just before Angie enters.]

Angie Dinkley: Good thing I have this key I use to snoop around your room when you're not here. Oh, dear, did I just say that out loud?

Velma: You have no respect for my privacy!

Angie Dinkley: Of course, I don't! You're a teenager. [looks around]

[Angie hears a crash from the bathroom.]

Velma: [blocks bathroom door] I told you, there's no one here!

[Angie pushes her aside and enters the bathroom, but there is no one inside.]

Velma: Uh... see? I told you.

[The window is open, indicating Amy escaped through there.]

K-Ghoul - Night
Fred: Well, your anonymous tip checks out, Velma. Skipper Shelton is nowhere to be found.

Angel Dynamite: You know, babies, I was wonderin' if this haunted oil platform is the same one that used to be on back in the day by Destroido.

Daphne: The company with all those terrible products?

Angel Dynamite: That's the one. They were going to start pumpin' oil a while back until some scientists do shut them down over some, uh, environmental heebidy-jeebidy stuff.

Fred: When was this?

Angel Dynamite: About twenty years back.

Velma: I didn't know you lived here that long ago.

Angel Dynamite: I didn't. But baby, I've always been interested in the environmental heebidy-jeebidy stuff. This story was real big back in the day, in all the news.

Shaggy: [reads newspaper] Whoa! Like, check this out, you guys! Destroido's having a press conference tomorrow!

Angel Dynamite: Might be worth paying them a visit.

EXT. Destroido Corp - Day
[The CEO, Ed Machine, holds a press conference.]

Ed Machine: Ladies and gentlemen of the press, and smelly activists in need of a shower, Destroido is proud to announce our newest product, guaranteed to be a hot seller (until we start getting sued). Gummy Dummies, fortified with extra lead. Gummy Dummies, the candy designed to inhibit brain function so you can relax in blissful ignorance. Comes in cherry, lime, and pork.

Shaggy, Scooby: Mmm, pork!

Daphne: What a terrible product!

Velma: That's Destroido for you.

Ed Machine: I don't have any time for stupid questions, so grab some free samples and get lost. [exits]

Scooby: Ooh!

Velma: Mr. Machine, we'd like permission to go out to your abandoned oil platform for... research purposes.

Ed Machine: And I'd like to have a polka-dot princess pony, but mommy won't get me one. Now, beat it before I have you arrested for trespassing!

Ernesto: Nice guy, isn't he?

Daphne: Ernesto?

Ernesto: Hello again, Comrade Daphne. We have missed you on the front lines in our fight to take down the man.

Daphne: Gang, you remember my radical idealist friend, Ernesto, from Darrow College.

Fred: Yeah! Hey, nice beret! What size is your head? I'm a seven-and-three-quarters, but I've got a head dimple in the back makes it almost impossible to get a good, snug fit.

Shaggy: So, dude, like, what brings you here besides obvious evil?

Ernesto: We're here to protect Gaia, Mother Earth, from despotic corporate overlords like Destroido. Go, Gaia!

Protesters: Go Gaia!

Velma: Yeah. Well, good luck with that. Come on, you guys, just because Ed Machine said no doesn't mean we have to listen to him.

EXT. Oil Platform - Night
[Mystery Inc. drives a yacht to the oil platform.]

Daphne: I don't remember daddy's little boat being so dinged up!

Shaggy: Look over there!

Fred: Way to go, Scooby! I know we'd find it eventually.

[They disembark on the oil platform.]

Shaggy: Like, why couldn't we have come out here when it was nice and sunny? The problem with fog is you can't see anything 'til it's-

[A diving suit swings on a platform towards Shaggy and Scooby. They scream.]

Velma: Relax, you babies. It's just an empty suit.

Scooby: [chuckles] We knew that.

[Scene cuts.]

Shaggy: Like, can we go now? I don't know how this place could get any scarier.

Scooby: I do.

[Fish freaks jump up onto the oil platform.]

All: Fish freaks!

[Blackout. Mystery Inc. is tied up and suspended over the water.]

Fred: Wow, look at these knots! The simplicity and the beauty. These fish freaks have skills!

Shaggy: Like, what do they want with us? What if they eat my brains?!

Velma: It'll be a light meal. [to person next to her] But who are you?

Spike Cavenaugh: Dr. Spike Cavenaugh. I used to be Destroido's chief of geology.

Daphne: You're the scientist Angel was talking about.

Spike Cavenaugh: The fish freaks nabbed me a couple of weeks ago, forced me to help them.

Skipper Shelton (Clam Cabin owner): Us too. They've been makin' me and me brother work this stink like seadogs!

Daphne: What are they up to?

Spike Cavenaugh: They're going to drill for oil underneath this platform, just like Destroido wanted to do years ago. But the ground here is so unstable that there's going to be a nasty oil spill if anyone drills into it. I tried to warn them, but they just wheezed at me and shuffled off.

Scooby: Why would fish freaks be interested in drilling for oil?

Spike Cavenaugh: That, my canine friend, is the big greasy question.

[Fish freaks appear.]

Shaggy: Zoinks!

Spike Cavenaugh: Please, I'm begging you not to drill! The oil will kill thousands of healthy sea creatures, which I think you kind of are, right?

[The fish freaks ignore him, start the drill, and jump back in the water, swimming away.]

Spike Cavenaugh: Oh, this is terrible! We have to stop that drill!

Amy: Maybe I can help.

All: A mermaid?!

Velma: Amy!

All: Amy?

Daphne: You know her?

Velma: Okay... yes. She was my source, but she's my secret special friend, so don't any of you think about stealing her! That was awkward.

[Amy climbs the ladder to get onto the platform, then works to untie them.]

[Scene cuts. Mystery Inc. is now free.]

Velma: Dr. Cavenaugh, where's the off switch for that drill?

Spike Cavenaugh: Uh... it's on the drill.

Scooby: That wasn't smart.

Spike Cavenaugh: Yeah, I was never much of a details man.

Amy: Unfortunately, I damaged my tail pretty bad dragging myself up those steps, or I'd go after it.

Velma: I recall you two bragging about how long you could hold your breath.

Shaggy: Like, that only applies when we're gulping massive amounts of chow.

Scooby: Yeah, chow!

Velma: Shaggy, Scooby!

Shaggy: Well, what about the fish freaks that are, like, down there?

Fred: That's the best part. Once you turn off the drill, they'll chase you back up here right into one of my traps!

Shaggy: Right, I get it. Once again, we're bait.

Fred, Daphne, Velma: Exactly.

[Scooby and Shaggy put on their diving gear and enter a lowering platform.]

Scooby: Could we wait 'til the water warms up?

Velma: Get in the water.

Scooby: Right. [holds breath]

[Shaggy and Scooby jump in.]

Fred: Now, let's trap some fish freaks!

[They sneak past the fish freaks and turn off the drill. The fish freaks notice them and chase them. They swim away.]

[Scooby and Shaggy resurface. The fish freaks jump onto the oil platform.]

Amy: [sings] Take another step closer, for we still haven't met...

[The fish freaks run towards her.]

Fred: Now!

[The fish freaks are caught in a net.]

Amy: [sings] Too bad, you suckers, now you're caught in my net!

Velma: Good job, Freddy.

Fred: Well, not one of my fancier traps, but I think there's a certain beauty in its simplicity.

Spike Cavenaugh: I would like to know who's been holding me captive all this time. [pulls off one mask]

Daphne: Ernesto?

Ernesto: Hello, Comrade Daphne and her fellow comrade mystery-solving teenagers.

[The other freaks remove their masks, revealing they are Ernesto's protesters.]

Daphne: But aren't you against all this anti-environment stuff?

Ernesto: Funny you should ask. [flashback starts] It all started when we were doing a little research into our old foe, Destroido. We were going through their trash, and we ran across some very interesting information: Dr. Cavenaugh's report on this giant oil deposit off Dead Man's Point. We came up with a plan to make enough money to fund our various protests. We were gonna drill for the oil ourselves and sell it.

Fred: You were doing this for cash?

Ernesto: You have no idea how expensive it is to be a grassroots activist! After we found the location of the oil platform, all we had to do was scare off anyone who started nosing into our business. [flashback ends] And we would have, too, if that meddling mermaid had kept her fin to herself and never contacted you!

Velma: Hold on, are you telling us that you were going to cause a major environmental disaster in order to get the cash to protest against major environmental disasters?

Ernesto: Yes. You must be willing to kill the environment to save it.

Mystery Inc.: Uh, no. I don't think that's right.

EXT. Clam Cabin - Night
[Ernesto is handed over to Sheriff Stone. Velma waves to them, but turns and finds, to her horror, Amy with human legs kissing Dr. Cavenaugh. She holds the costume mermaid fin in her hand.]

Velma: Hey! You're not... a mermaid.

Dr. Cavenaugh: Allow me to introduce my lovely wife, Amy Cavenaugh, ordinary human and professional commercial jingle singer.

Fred: That explains why your eerily beautiful singing voice made me want to put on deodorant.

[Velma sighs.]

Amy Cavenaugh: Velma...

Velma: You lied to me. You acted like you were my friend, and I believed you.

Amy Cavenaugh: I'm sorry. I came up with the mermaid character out of desperation. I'd gone to the police to report that my husband had been kidnapped by fish freaks, but they just laughed at me! Then asked for directions for the oil platform so they could add it to the stop on the Crystal Cove Mystery Tour. I thought that if I could make it sound it like one of your mysteries, you'd help me rescue my husband, and you did.

Velma: How do you even know about us?

Amy Cavenaugh: I read your blog. I'm a fan.

Velma: Does that mean... you're going to stay in touch.

Amy Cavenaugh: If you'd like me to.

Velma: Well... whatever. It's your decision. But I wouldn't mind if you did. As far as helping, it's what we do. Our friend, Angel, also deserves a lot of credit. She knew about Destroido's involvement from some old newspaper articles. That's how we made the connection.

Amy Cavenaugh: Newspaper articles? That's strange. Destroido covered the whole thing up. The newspapers never even knew about it.

Velma: Hm...

INT. K-Ghoul - Night
[Angel Dynamite is in her booth. She doesn't notice Velma standing behind her until she turns around.]

Angel Dynamite: Lordy, Velma! Baby, you just 'bout scared me out of my skin-tight leather foxy pants! What's with all the sneakin' around?!

Velma: You tell me.

Angel Dynamite: What's that supposed to mean?

Velma: For the short amount of time that you've been in Crystal Cove, you sure know a lot about this town's mystery history.

Angel Dynamite: Well, I'm just curious about nature. Remember the heebidy-jeebidies?

Velma: Stop. One of my big problems, on the list that's long and distinguished, is that despite my skeptical nature, I trust people. I want to see the best in them. Unfortunately, they usually let me down. [beat] Things have been adding up for me, Angel. The help you gave us on this oil platform mystery, the diary you provided for the mystery manor case, stuff that you shouldn't know and shouldn't have had, no matter what the hibidy-jibidy.

Angel Dynamite: What are you sayin'?

Velma: I'm saying Angel Dynamite isn't your real name. I think your real name is Cassidy Williams, and you're one of the members of the original Mystery Incorporated that vanished in the caves beneath Crystal Cove. Tell me I'm wrong... friend.

[Credits]