EXT. Destroido Corp. - Night
[Kelsepsian exits the Destroido factory and goes to his car in the parking lot. His mobile phone rings, he receives the call and answers it]

Kelsepsian: On my way home, darling.

[An ominous voice is heard on the other end of the phone.]

Voice: You did not heed my warning.

Kelsepsian: (confused) Honey? What's wrong with your voice? It's so deep. (realizes) Wait a minute, is this that nut again?

Voice: I told you, if you do not quit your job at Destroido and leave forever, something terrible will happen to you.

Kelsepsian: And I told you I don't appreciate prank calls! My sister-in-law is a paralegal, and if this keeps up, I'm suing you! (shakes fists angrily at his phone) Go suck a lemon! (angrily hangs up) Oh, boy, the nerve of some people!

EXT. Road - Night
[Kelsepsian drives on the road. He stops at an intersection, whilst he waits for the traffic light to turn green, a cicada flies in and lands on his windshield.]

Kelsepsian: Ew. One of those cicada thingies. I hate those bugs. Bleugh! (uses windshield wiper)

[The traffic light turns green and he goes ahead, but as soon as it does, more cicadas fly in, some land on his windshield and a few actually enter the car via it's air conditioning. A large cicada swarm then appears from behind the car.]

Kelsepsian: (Notices the cicada swarm) What's goin' on?! (Notices cicadas on his hand) Hey! Go away! Come on! Shoo, shoo! (He shoos the cicadas away... only for more and more cicadas to enter the car) Aah! Aah! Oh! I GIVE UP!!!!

[Tires squeal. The cicadas completely cover the car. Kelsepsian is unable to concentrate on the road, he misses a turn and drives off the edge of a cliff screaming, his car rolls down the cliff and lands at the precipice. The cicadas then emerge from the car and join to form a cicada creature.]

Cicada Creature: I warned you!

[The cicada creature then shoots out cicadas and covers the screen. Intro sequence plays]

INT. Crystal Cove High School Biology Classroom - Day
[Professor Rick Yantz teaches a biology class, where a cicada sits on his fingertip.]

Yantz: The cicada, the most perfect insect in a decidedly-imperfect world. (kisses cicada, returns it to tree)

[Fred and Daphne are seated.]

Fred: (to Daphne) Did he just kiss a bug?

Daphne: Yeah. Isn't he just the best?

Yantz: The cicada's life cycle is fascinating. As grubs, they burrow into the ground, where they spend the next seventeen years.

[Shaggy and Scooby are also in class, eating Nature Slivers.]

Scooby: (taps Velma's shoulder) Want one?

Velma: Not from you, I don't.

Scooby: (whimpers) Can't we just be friends?

Velma: Ask me in seventeen years.

Yantz: Changes in our ecosystem, though, could wipe off the precious cicada, which is why we need to keep watch on companies who pollute nature. Isn't that right, Shaggy and Scooby?

Scooby: Huh?

Shaggy: Pardon?

Yantz: Are you aware that Grandma Moonbeam's Nature Slivers are manufactured by Destroido, and every bite you take supports the biggest polluter in Crystal Cove?!

Shaggy: No, they're, like, super-good!

Scooby: Yeah! Want one?

Yantz: I don't even know why I let you take this class.

[The bell rings.]

INT. Hallway - Day
[They exit the classroom.]

Fred: That guy's a total nut.

Daphne: Hm, I think Dr. Yantz is amazing.

Fred: What? What are you talkin' about?

Daphne: Well, for one thing, he's... he's intelligent.

Velma: And cute.

Fred: Yeah?! Well, I'd wonder how cute he'd look caught in one of my traps! A real mean one!

Shaggy: Like, are you okay, Freddy?

Fred: Of course, I'm okay. Why wouldn't I be okay?

Shaggy: I dunno, you just seem a little, um...

Scooby: Jealous.

Fred: What?! What are you talkin' about? Jealous? I'm not jealous.

Shaggy: Okay, whatever you- (feels something in mouth while eating Nature Slivers, pulls it out) oh...

[Shaggy finds a note.]

Shaggy: It's a note from Mr. E! Must have been the back of my Nature Slivers. He says, "There's a mystery waiting for us at the hospital." There's been some sort of weird accident!

Fred: (takes note) What kind of accident?

Shaggy: (burps out another note, reads) He says we'll find out when we get there.

EXT. Hospital - Day
[Mystery Inc. arrives at the hospital. A police car is parked there.]

Velma: Looks like Mr. E's right. Something's up. That's Sheriff Stone's car.

Shaggy: Like, maybe we can stop by the cafeteria when we're done and get some of that delicious hospital gelatin.

Scooby: Reah! With saltines, and applesauce...

Shaggy: And gelatin. (exits with Scooby)

[All start walking except Fred.]

Fred: Oh, uh... hey, Daphne.

Daphne: Yes?

Fred: Uh... right, well, I was just wondering if maybe, you know, you'd like to, uh... go on a... duh... duh... d-d-

Daphne: A date? A real date? A date-date?

Fred: Yeah! You and me. There's a new trap exhibit at the museum.

Daphne: Ugh, traps. Gee, Fred. When you said you wanted to take me on a date, for a minute, I thought you meant it.

Fred: I do mean it! You love traps!

Daphne: No, Fred. You love traps. (walks away)

Fred: Uh...

INT. Operation Room - Day
[A nurse operates on Kelsepsian.]

Nurse: Steady now...

[The nurse removes a cicada lodged in Kelsepsian's nose.]

Nurse: There.

[The cicada flies away and onto the Sheriff's shirt.]

Sheriff: (screams) Ew! It's on me! (attempts to knock cicada away with hat) Get it off, get off! Get off, get off, oh!

Mayor: Calm down. It's just a bug.

Sheriff: (screams) Help!

[The mayor knocks the cicada away with his hand.]

Sheriff: Ew, ew, ew! (shudders) Thank you. Ick.

Fred: [enters with Mystery Inc.] Dad?

Mayor: Oh, no.

[The sheriff closes the operation room door to prevent Mystery Inc. from looking inside.]

Fred: Can we help you with anything?

Mayor: No. Go away.

Velma: Who's the patient?

Mayor: An employee at Destroido. Go away.

Shaggy: Like, what happened to him?

Mayor: It's classified. Go away.

Sheriff: It was this awful creature made of thousands and thousands of cicada bugs! It got in his hair, his nose, all over him! (shudders) Ew, ew! Gross! Ick.

Mayor: What are you, three years old?! All right, fine, yes. A bug creature, okay? And I'm not gonna let a golden opportunity like this go to waste. I already talked with the city council. We're gonna have a Cicada Bug Creature Festival this weekend. The crowds will be huge! And if you have any human decency left in your hearts, you will not get involved!

[The mayor and sheriff exit.]

Fred: Sorry, dad, but we can't do that.

INT. Dederdee's House - Night
[Another Destroido employee, Hugh Dederdee, showers in his house's bathroom, humming to himself. The phone rings, Hugh Dederdee turns off the shower and steps out, he ties a towel around his waist and answers the call.]

Hugh Dederdee: Hello?

Cicada Creature: You did not heed my warning.

Hugh Dederdee: You again? I'm taking a shower. Stop calling me!

Cicada Creature: I told you. If you do not quit your job at Destroido and leave town forever, something terrible will happen!

Hugh Dederdee: Blah, blah, blah. Leave me alone! (angrily hangs up, returns to shower)

[Hugh Dederdee turns on the shower again, but the water does not come out. Hugh Dederdee examines the shower head.]

[While Hugh Dederdee looks up, a cicada appears out of the drain beneath him.]

Hugh Dederdee: Wha? (bends down) What is that? (picks up a cicada) A bug?

[On cue, and suddenly, cicadas flood out the drain into the shower, Hugh Dederdee immediately screams, panicking, he tries to get out of the shower, only to find that the door would not open, the cicadas then completely cover Hugh Dederdee.]

INT. Hospital - Day
[A Nature Slivers commercial is shown on television in the visitors' waiting room.]

Commercial jingle: [sings] From fields and rivers come Nature Slivers, fish oil, flax, and wheat, Grandma Moonbeam cooks in her kitchen to give you good things to eat. Nature Slivers!

Commercial announcer: When you want fish oil, flax, and wheat in one crunchy bite, bite Nature Slivers! A division of Destroido.

Scooby: (whimpers) I wanna bite some Nature Slivers. I'm starving!

Shaggy: Like, me, too.

Fred: Okay, gang. I got it. Room 24B.

[Inside the hospital room, Dederdee is lying on his bed.]

Grandma Moonbeam: There, there, poor dear. Such an ordeal.

Daphne: (enters with Mystery Inc.) Mr. Dederdee, mind if we ask you a few questions?

Velma: We heard about your bug attack last night.

Hugh Dederdee: Come on in. I'm not going anywhere.

Grandma Moonbeam: Well, I should go. Feel better, dear. (reveals herself to Mystery Inc.)

Mystery Inc.: Huh?!

Shaggy and Scooby: Grandma Moonbeam?!

Shaggy: (laughs, shakes Moonbeam's hand) We're, like, your biggest fans!

Scooby: Nature Slivers! Yummy!

Grandma Moonbeam: Well, now, isn't that nice. After I sold my company to Destroido, Hugh here has been instrumental in making them so popular among young people.

Fred: You work at Destroido, too?

Hugh Dederdee: Mm-hm.

Velma: Just like the other victim.

Grandma Moonbeam: Well, I'll leave you all to talk. (leaves)

Fred: Mr. Dederdee, do you have any idea why you were attacked?

Hugh Dederdee: Not really. Got a call a couple of weeks ago. Some deep-voiced creepy guy said if I didn't quit my job at Destroido, something terrible would happen to me. I never thought it would be... (shudders)

[As Hugh Dederdee speaks, his EKG monitor starts to get louder, indicating a faster heart rate.]

Hugh Dederdee: Eugh. Disgusting... (frantically scratches himself) bugs... bugs... bugs, all over me! Bugs, buzzing bugs, all over me! (screams)

[A flatline noise is heard. Mystery Inc. exits.]

Daphne: Uh, thanks again, Mr. Dederdee.

Intercom: Code Blue. Crash cart in Room 613.

[Nurses rush in. As Mystery Inc. leaves, defibrillator noises are heard.]

Fred: Great question-and-answer session, eh, gang?

[They enter an elevator. The button panel starts to crackle electricity.]

Fred: Uh, hit lobby, will you, Shag?

[Shaggy hits the button and the elevator door closes. As the elevator descends, Scooby smiles at Velma.]

Velma: Hmph.

[The elevator opens, but they are not on the ground floor.]

Velma: Nice one, dog-boy. You pressed the wrong button. This is the basement.

Shaggy: No, I didn't. Like, see? Lobby.

Scooby: Hm, must be broken.

[Fred and Daphne exit the elevator. Fred hits a light switch, turning on some lights. Suddenly, the elevator door shuts behind them. Shaggy attempts to reopen them, grunting.]

[They then hear cicada noises coming from the pipes. Suddenly, the vents open, and cicadas flood in.]

Scooby: (screams, runs around) Bugs!

[The cicadas form a cicada creature.]

Cicada Creature: Cease your useless investigations, or something terrible will happen to you, tomorrow night! Heed my warning. Heed it! Heed! (disintegrates and returns into pipes)

[The elevator door opens again.]

EXT. Street - Night
[Fred drives the Mystery Machine.]

Velma: There has to be some reason the victims all work for Destroido.

[Scooby coughs out a cicada. Daphne screams as it exits the vehicle.]

Shaggy: Like, maybe whosever behind it doesn't like the company.

Daphne: But who could train thousands of bugs to attack like that?

Fred: (brakes hard) Same person who kisses them!

Daphne: What?

Fred: Dr. Yantz! It all fits! Remember what he said in class about Destroido being one of the biggest polluters in Crystal Cove? He hates that company!

Daphne: It's not Dr. Yantz.

Velma: Wait a minute, Daphne. Fred might be onto something. Dr. Yantz is an expert on cicada. He could have trained them to-

Daphne: It's not Dr. Yantz!

Fred: How do you know?

Daphne: Because... because... because...

Fred: Because he's cute? I see the way you look at him. Did he give you his phone number? You probably already texted him!

Daphne: What if I did? And what if we made plans to go to the trap exhibit, without you?!

Fred: Wha?! [stutters] We're gonna settle this right now! [drives away]

INT. Crystal Cove High School - Night
[Mystery Inc. stands in the hallway. Fred peeks into Yantz's classroom. He is playing the sitar to the cicadas.]

Scooby: Is he back in there?

Fred: (whispers) Yeah. (pushes Scooby away from view, closes door) Let's go.

Daphne: You're making a big mistake, Fred.

Fred: Big mistakes is what I do.

[They sneak inside.]

Yantz: (singing) Oh, when you're friends, what will you do, when the ground you call your home is filled with poo?

Fred: The jig is up, Dr. Yantz! Watch out for his weapon, gang. No doubt he's got the cicada under some sort of brain control!

Yantz: I was putting them to sleep. It's their bedtime.

Shaggy: Huh, that's a good one. Right, Scooby-Doo? Huh?

[Scooby is sleeping on the floor.]

Yantz: What is going on here?

Fred: You know exactly what's going on, girlfriend-stealer!

Daphne: (listens from outside, gasps) Girlfriend? Really?!

Velma: You've been using cicada bugs to attack employees at Destroido.

Yantz: Are you insane? I'm callin' the police.

[Scene cuts. The sheriff and mayor listen to Mystery Inc. talking over each other.]

Mayor: Quiet! Now, one at a time.

Fred: Dr. Yantz is the cicada creature, dad!

Sheriff: You are? Ohhh.

Mayor: Let's not jump to conclusions. (whispers to Yantz) But if you are the cicada creature, would you mind showing up at the Cicada Festival tomorrow? It'll be a big help.

Yantz: I am not the cicada creature!

Mayor: Of course, you're not! (whispers) Show up around six. I'll have a photographer there.

Yantz: If you don't get these kids out of here right now, I'm pressing charges.

[They all exit the classroom except Yantz, who slams the door.]

Fred: But, dad, we have to find out who the creature is, and fast!

Mayor: Why? So you can ruin everything?

Daphne: No, because it said it was going to attack us tomorrow night.

Mayor: Tomorrow night? That's wonderful!

All: What?!

Mayor: I mean, terrible. Awful. Fortunately, I know what to do. Come to the Cicada Festival tomorrow night so we can... protect you! Six o'clock. (whispers to sheriff) Let's hire another photographer. This is perfect! (to all) Well, now. Who wants to go out for cheesecake?

EXT. Golf Course - Sunset
[Ed Machine, CEO of Destroido, plays golf with a caddy.]

Caddy: (drives cart) Ed, come on, now. Let's go back to the clubhouse. It's getting dark.

Ed Machine: Forget it. I'm having the best game of my life!

[The caddy sighs and drives away. Ed's mobile phone rings, Ed Machine receives a call and answers it.]

Cicada Creature: You did not heed my warning. I told you that you-

Ed Machine: Yeah, yeah, quit my job at Destroido or some'in' terrible would happen to me. Listen, you. I'm the CEO of the company, and I am not going anywhere! (swings golf stick angrily) Now, get lost! (angrily hangs up, resumes playing golf)

[Ed Machine hits the ball into the hole.]

Ed Machine: That's the way to do it.

[The ball mysteriously flies out of the hole.]

Ed Machine: Huh?

[The flag flies out of the hole.]

Ed Machine: What?

[Ed Machine inspects the hole to see the cause, but as soon as he does, cicadas fly out of the hole. Ed Machine tries to swat them away to no avail. The cicadas form the cicada creature, which then roars and screeches. The cicadas then completely cover Ed Machine. The cicada creature looks at the camera for a few seconds before devouring the screen.]

INT. K-Ghoul - Day
Velma: (reads newspaper) Looks like that cicada thing struck again last night!

Shaggy: And, like, we're next. Tonight! (whimpers)

Fred: Hey, don't worry. I've got it all figured out. I was up all night building a trap, and believe me, I'll catch it.

Scooby: Or die trying.

EXT. Cicada Festival - Night
[Mystery Inc. is in the parking lot.]

Fred: Okay, remember. We need to lure the creature into the Mystery Machine here where the trap is.

Scooby: How do we do that?

Velma: Easy. We're the bait.

Shaggy: I was afraid you'd say that. (whimpers)

[They split up and enter the festival. Daphne walks with Fred.]

Daphne: Did you really mean that? About me being your girlfriend?

Fred: Oh, uh... you heard that. Well, uh, uh, uh... ooh, look! Whomp-a-Gopher! Wanna whomp a gopher? I want to whomp a gopher.

[Fred starts playing the carnival game.]

Daphne: Oh, it's okay, Freddy. I know you have problems expressing your feelings.

Fred: (keeps whacking) What makes you... think that?

Daphne: (grabs Fred's ascot) I'd like you to be my boyfriend, too. And I'd be honoured to go to the trap exhibit with you. (leans in for kiss)

Fred: (evades kiss) Dad!

Daphne: Hm?

[The mayor appears with the sheriff and a photographer.]

Mayor: Where have you been? That thing could have attacked you and we wouldn't have had any pictures.

Fred: Gosh, dad. You really care! (hugs father) Aw, thanks! Don't worry. We're just walking around so the creature knows we're here.

Mayor: Oh! Good idea, yeah! And if that thing attacks, run back here so we can get pictures.

[The photographer snaps a photo. Meanwhile, Shaggy sees something.]

Shaggy: Hm?

[Yantz is walking into a building.]

Shaggy: Like, dudes! I just saw Dr. Yantz go in the House of Spooky Things.

Fred: Just the break we need. Let's follow him.

Daphne: You don't still think it's him?

Fred: There's only one way to find out.

[They enter, only to be startled by a cutout. They groan and continue.]

Shaggy: (examines cutout) Like, that's not very spooky.

Scooby: Not spooky.

[They keep walking. A clown head drops from the ceiling and cackles.]

Shaggy: Nope, not spooky.

Scooby: Not spooky at all.

[A witch is seen on the wall.]

Shaggy: And, like, this is definitely not spooky.

[The walls descend from the ceiling, trapping them.]

Shaggy: Now, this is spooky.

[They then hear a buzzing sound which intensifies.]

Velma: What's that noise?

[The cicada swarm appears and form the cicada creature.]

Cicada Creature: You will pay the price!

[Fred breaks out by ramming through the wall. The others follow. Yantz is outside, eating a hot dog.]

Yantz: Huh?

Shaggy: (stumbles, pants) Like, I don't think it's Dr. Yantz!

Velma: Really?! You think?! (pushes him away)

[The cicada creature bursts out of the house roaring. Yantz sees it and drops his hot dog. The cicada creature then starts chasing the gang.]

Fred: Lead it back to the Mystery Machine!

[The creature chases them to the parking lot. The cicadas start to completely cover Fred, but Fred presses a button just in time. The button opens the back of the Mystery Machine, revealing a vacuum cleaner. The vacuum sucks up many of the cicadas. The cicada creature starts to shrink. Scooby grabs the nozzle and brings it closer to the creature, sucking it up even faster. Eventually, the cicadas are gone, revealing only the culprit in a beekeeping suit.]

Fred: Now! Get him!

[Scooby lets go of the vacuum nozzle and removes the culprit's mask. The culprit is revealed as Grandma Moonbeam]

All: Grandma Moonbeam?!

[The mayor, sheriff, and photographer run over.]

Mayor: Did we miss it? Where are the bugs?

Fred: You're the cicada creature? But why?

Grandma Moonbeam: Isn't it obvious? I wanted to shut down Destroido. (flashback starts) (Grandma Moonbeam is ironically working at Destroido) I found out they added a secret ingredient to make Nature Slivers more tasty. (sees that they indeed added landfill waste to the recipe) LANDFILL WASTE!!! (cut to Grandma Moombeam angrily demanding at Ed Machine to return to the original recipe, slams fists onto table) I demanded that they return to my original, healthy recipe, but they refused, (Ed Machine simply just laughs and dismisses her demands, points at the increasing sales) and because they owned it, there was nothing I could do. I vowed to get even. (Grandma Moonbeam has only one thing on her mind - revenge!) (fade to Grandma Moonbeam watching a documentary on the TV, sees the sound wave machine that researchers are using on penguins, cranking & whirring sounds) I saw a Norwegian documentary about a researcher using sound waves to control penguins' movements. I decided to adapt the idea for my revenge. (fade to Grandma Moonbean with her sound wave machine in her garden wearing a beekeeping suit, whirring sound) Since I didn't have any penguins, (hearing the whirring, a cicada flies toward her, subsequently followed by a whole cicada swarm) I used cicadas. (The cicadas completely cover Grandma Moonbeam, creating the cicada creature) (flashback ends) And I would have succeeded, too, if it hadn't been for you meddling young people.

Sheriff: Well, now, it's the big house for you, Grandma. Let's go. (exits with Grandma Moonbeam)

Mayor: (grunts) Why can't anything in this town turn out to be real? (exits)

Fred: Glad we could help, dad!

Velma: Well, another mystery successfully solved.

Shaggy: (laughs) I'll say! Like, who's up for a trip to the Clam Cabin? It's All-You-Can-Eat Krill Night!

Scooby: Krill? Oh, yum!

Daphne: Sorry, gang, but Fred and I are gonna have to pass. We've got a date.

INT. Trap Exhibit - Night
Fred: Thanks again, Daph, for agreeing to come here.

Daphne: Oh, Freddy. I wanted to, for you. So, uh, how long do you think we'll be stuck in this trap?

[They are both stuck in a trap, with Fred being upside down.]

Fred: Well, the cleaning crew usually gets in around nine, so it should only be... twelve hours or so. Hey, can I have a sip of your soda? My throat's starting to close up from the blood rushing to my head.

[Daphne reaches to give Fred the drink, but he spills it over himself.]

Daphne: Oh, Freddy.

[Credits]